Luisa: Are we allowed to say bitches?
Lizzie: Are we allowed to say bitches?
We don’t actually know.
Luisa: Politics for bitches
Luisa: So it’s a stand-up show and it’s
called Politics for Bitches.
The idea came
from that I hate politics, I find it so boring,
so unaccessible, genuinely could not care
less for it. And then so many things started
happening last year, you know and like Trump
got elected and the Brexit things and then
I just realised I was like I’ve got no idea
what any of this means and like I feel like
you need a dictionary or a thesaurus to watch
a programme like Question Time or to watch
a YouTube video even on what’s a referendum
mean. And then sadly my mum last year she
passed away from cancer
Luisa: I called 999, I called 111, I called
every help line I could think of to support
my mum. And it got to the point where I went
to the oncologist and he said there’s no
helping your mum.
Luisa: So I started talking about this on
stage and being like oh, for me I thought
politics was oh those guys in Westminster
that doesn’t affect me, I’m just trying
to figure out how to contour, live my best
life mate. And then it did affect me because
my mum died and she died horribly, and I was
like the system wasn’t there to aid her
or support her
Luisa: I said please there must be something
you can do, it’s 2017, some body cannot
die like this. They said there’s nothing
we can do. Your mum will go home to die. My
mum paid taxes her entire life, she did not
deserve the ending that she had.
Luisa: It doesn’t sound very funny, I mean
it wasn’t for a long time, but then by using
comedy and using the audiences and their experience
I’ve turned it into a comedy show.
Lizzie: So tell me about that, what have you
learnt?
Luisa: Well I’ve learnt that the Tory Party
and the Conservative Party are actually the
same thing. That’s the one thing that I’ve
learnt. Because for a while there I thought
they were two separate guys.
Lizzie: Ok, we’re starting from quite a
low knowledge level.
Luisa: Dude, this is the thing, because I
think people are too scared to be called stupid.
I didn’t know who Margaret Thatcher was
for a long time. I thought she was like a
popstar in the 80s, didn’t realise, listen
it wasn’t my fault…
Lizzie: So Duran Duran, Margaret Thatcher
…
Luisa: I didn’t know, I was into Cher. Anyway,
in my first show, Beyonce, I did this whole
skit about how I accidentally went online,
I watched The Iron Lady, I thought she was
a very powerful woman, and I said I love Margaret
Thatcher online. Oh my dear, never put that
on your Facebook status, because boy did I
get an education. And then I was on the front
of like the Telegraph being like this is the
face of right-wing comedy, it was me and I
was like I don’t even know what right-wing
is mate so ….
Lizzie: Why do you think that politics, a
lot of young people, a lot of young women
aren’t engaged in politics. Why don’t
you think they pay attention?
Luisa: Because it’s purposefully unaccessible..
Lizzie: You think it’s deliberately inaccessible
Luisa: Mate totally, totally, because politics
in itself, not deliberately in terms of we’re
going to make it so complicated so you don’t
understand, but by so many people getting
into it they get into their own heads with
it and by getting so up themselves they’ve
lost track of going actually the more you
know about it the more it’s your duty to
share that information with people that don’t,
because politics affects everybody.
Lizzie: And how do we encourage more people
to get into politics then, how do we encourage
more people to think then yeah, I could be
an MP?
Luisa: I think it’s empowering everyday
people just to realise their importance and
rather than it being us Westminster and you
people saying you don’t worry about that,
I think that’s very much also a London-centric
thing, London’s its own entity and all the
rest of the UK just has to put up and shut
up and deal with it, whereas London makes
all the decisions, London gets everything.
And actually there is a, there’s millions
of other people out there that are working
every day, that are working hard, that are
paying their taxes, and it would be nice to
get those voices in. But it’s funnier than
it sounds.
Lizzie: The show is funny.
Luisa: There are some jokes in there. Very
exciting, yeah.
Lizzie: That’s brilliant. Luisa thanks very
much.
Luisa: Thanks for having me.